ITTLE SURYA BAI

A HINDOO STORY


There was once a poor peasant woman who sold milk. Every day she filled
her cans with milk and went to a near-by town and sold it, returning
with her cans empty.

One day, when she set out she took her little baby daughter with her. In
each hand the mother carried a milk can, and the baby held to her skirt
and walked close beside her.

Suddenly two great eagles appeared, wheeling about in the sky, and one
of them dropped down and seized the child and flew away with it; the
other eagle, which was its mate, followed it.

The woman cried aloud and dropped her milk cans, and ran along after the
eagles, but they quickly disappeared in the distance. The woman beat
upon her breast and wailed bitterly, but nothing she could say or do
could bring her child back to her.

The eagle flew on and on with the baby until they reached the tree where
they lived. There the father eagle, who had carried her, laid her gently
on the grass.

He and his mate were so delighted with the child and her pretty ways
that they determined to keep her.

They built a house for her high in the top of the tree. The house was
made of iron, and was very strong, and it had seven iron doors and there
was a key for each one of them so it could be locked. In this house the
little girl lived with a little dog and cat the eagles had brought her
for company.

The eagles loved the child dearly and named her Surya Bai, which means
Sun Lady. They brought her food and beautiful clothes,--clothes such as
princesses wear, and magnificent jewels. Each day, after they had set
forth, Surya Bai locked the doors so she would be safe. Then she played
about the house with the little dog and cat and was well contented. In
the evening, when the eagles came home, they would knock, and Surya Bai
would unlock the seven doors, one after another, and let them in. Always
they brought her some pretty present.

One day the mother eagle said, “Our Surya Bai has now everything she
needs except a diamond ring to wear upon her finger. It makes me sad
that she should not have a diamond ring.”

“Yes,” replied the father eagle, “she ought to have one, and I will go
out and find one for her.”

“But an ordinary diamond ring will not do,” said his mate. “Once, far
away, upon the borders of the Red Sea, I saw a princess walking, and on
her finger she wore a ring so bright and dazzling it was like the sun in
splendor. It is such a ring as that that I wish to give to our Sun
Lady.”

“In that case we will fly away to the Red Sea and get one for her,” said
the father eagle.

